Add Tests and Demos about "Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted via SQLite" (#3534)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-TEST-0304.md

---
platform: android
title: Static Analysis for Unencrypted Sensitive Data in SQLite
id: MASTG-TEST-0304
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0006
best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0025]
profiles: [L2]
status: new
---

## Overview

This test verifies whether the app's code uses SQLite APIs to store sensitive data — such as tokens, credentials, or PII — without encryption. By default, SQLite databases created using `SQLiteOpenHelper` or `context.openOrCreateDatabase` are not encrypted.

## Steps

1. Obtain the application package (APK) using @MASTG-TECH-0003.

2. Use static analysis (@MASTG-TECH-0014) to review code for calls to SQLite APIs, including:
   - `SQLiteOpenHelper`
   - `context.openOrCreateDatabase`
   - `SQLiteDatabase#insert`, `query`, `execSQL`, etc.

3. Check database creation and insertion logic to determine if:
   - the database is created using default SQLite,
   - no encryption mechanism (SQLCipher or equivalent) is applied,
   - sensitive fields (tokens, secrets, PII) are inserted in plaintext.

## Observation

> - Identify SQLite databases created in the code.

Reviewer: Observation must not be "steps" like "identify" or "determine". Observation must declare the output you get after executing all steps and serves as evidence.

Reviewer: https://mas.owasp.org/contributing/writing-content/mastg-test.instructions/#observation

> - Determine whether sensitive data is inserted without encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether encryption is being applied in the code to the sensitive data before being stored.
```
